README.md, before:


[![Rdoc](http://www.rdocumentation.org/badges/version/roxygen2)](http://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/roxygen2) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rmsharp/snprcspf.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/rmsharp/snprcspf) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/rmsharp/snprcspf/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/rmsharp/snprcspf)

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
snprcspf
========

Installation
------------

### Installation from Source

There are two local source packages that must be installed prior to installing **snprcspf**. They are **rmsutilityr** and **animalr** and must be installed in that order.

For example, a very manual approach is to use the following code, which assumes you have all of the dependencies already installed:

``` r
install_path <- "c:/R Library"
source_path <- "d:Labkey data"
source <- "rmsutilityr.1.0.56.tar.gz"
install.packages(paste0(source_path, "/", source), type = "source", repos = NULL,
                     lib = install_path)
source <- "animalr.0.1.86.tar.gz"
install.packages(paste0(source_path, "/", source), type = "source", repos = NULL,
                     lib = install_path)
source <- "snprcspf.1.0.1.tar.gz"
install.packages(paste0(source_path, "/", source), type = "source", repos = NULL,
                     lib = install_path)
```

One or more of these will fail if you do not have the dependencies already installed, but the error message will provide the name(s) of the packages needed. However, as soon as one of the source packages is updated that code no longer work because the filename is wrong.

Assuming you have a version of **rmsutilityr** installed you can simply use the following code, which will find all of the dependencies, install them, locate the most recent source versions of the packages **rmsutilityr**, **animalr**, and **snprcspf**, and install them.

``` r
library(rmsutilityr)
source_names <- c("rmsutilityr", "animalr", "snprcspf")
source_path <- "d:Labkey data/"
## dependencies becomes the collection of packages needed to support our
## custom packages
dependencies <- make_package_dependency_list(source_names, source_path)
## We are installing binary packages first and then our local source
dependencies <- remove_these_str(dependencies, expunge = source_names)
install.packages(dependencies, type = "binary",
                 repos = "https://cran.revolutionanalytics.com",
                 lib = lib_path)
update.packages(lib.loc = lib_path,
                repos = "https://cran.revolutionanalytics.com", ask = FALSE)

install_from_source(source_names, source_path, install_path)
```

### Github.com Installation

It is much easier to install directly from [github.com/rmsharp/snprcspf](https://github.com/rmsharp/snprcspf) as all of the dependencies are automatically installed as well.

You can install **snprcspf** from github with:

``` r
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("rmsharp/snprcspf")
```

All missing dependencies should be automatically installed.

Commit message:

Modified to not format Excel file created to allow use with Java 12 bug

README.md, after:


[![Rdoc](http://www.rdocumentation.org/badges/version/roxygen2)](http://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/roxygen2)
[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/rmsharp/snprcspf.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/rmsharp/snprcspf)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/rmsharp/snprcspf/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/rmsharp/snprcspf)

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# snprcspf

## Disabled Excel File Formating

As of 2019 May 26, Java 12 has a bug  that prevents the use of the
XLConnect package. This version of snprcspf has removed that dependency
with the side effect of not providing formating within the Excel
workbook generated.

## Installation

### Installation from Source

There are two local source packages that must be installed prior to
installing **snprcspf**. They are **rmsutilityr** and **animalr** and
must be installed in that order.

For example, a very manual approach is to use the following code, which
assumes you have all of the dependencies already installed:

``` r
install_path <- "c:/R Library"
source_path <- "d:Labkey data"
source <- "rmsutilityr.1.0.56.tar.gz"
install.packages(paste0(source_path, "/", source), type = "source", repos = NULL,
                     lib = install_path)
source <- "animalr.0.1.86.tar.gz"
install.packages(paste0(source_path, "/", source), type = "source", repos = NULL,
                     lib = install_path)
source <- "snprcspf.1.0.1.tar.gz"
install.packages(paste0(source_path, "/", source), type = "source", repos = NULL,
                     lib = install_path)
```

One or more of these will fail if you do not have the dependencies
already installed, but the error message will provide the name(s) of the
packages needed. However, as soon as one of the source packages is
updated that code no longer work because the filename is wrong.

Assuming you have a version of **rmsutilityr** installed you can simply
use the following code, which will find all of the dependencies, install
them, locate the most recent source versions of the packages
**rmsutilityr**, **animalr**, and **snprcspf**, and install them.

``` r
library(rmsutilityr)
source_names <- c("rmsutilityr", "animalr", "snprcspf")
source_path <- "d:Labkey data/"
## dependencies becomes the collection of packages needed to support our
## custom packages
dependencies <- make_package_dependency_list(source_names, source_path)
## We are installing binary packages first and then our local source
dependencies <- remove_these_str(dependencies, expunge = source_names)
install.packages(dependencies, type = "binary",
                 repos = "https://cran.revolutionanalytics.com",
                 lib = lib_path)
update.packages(lib.loc = lib_path,
                repos = "https://cran.revolutionanalytics.com", ask = FALSE)

install_from_source(source_names, source_path, install_path)
```

### Github.com Installation

It is much easier to install directly from
[github.com/rmsharp/snprcspf](https://github.com/rmsharp/snprcspf) as
all of the dependencies are automatically installed as well.

You can install **snprcspf** from github with:

``` r
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("rmsharp/snprcspf")
```

All missing dependencies should be automatically installed.
